Assembler G Version 27A (Waterloo Assembler)

In October 2007, Dan Skomsky posted to the Hercules' Assembler
discussion group files area his cleaned up version of Assembler G
from the CBT Tape.  His update incorporates a tremendous effort
on his part to manually insert the updates to bring the assembler
to version 27a, which is the latest version of the source known
to be available.  He subsequently made a modification to one of
the macros to eliminate an MNOTE during assembly of the ASMG
source, necessitating the upload of a PTF to replace one
jobstream in the archive.  The archive available for download
here has had that PTF incorporated and the ReadMe from the PTF
archive has been appended to the ReadMe from the original archive
for documentation.  Otherwise the archive is unchanged from Dan's
original.  Note that all files contained in the archive are ASCII
TeXT format created on a Windows system, so each line is
terminated by X'0d0f', so if you download to a Linux system, you
need to run the files through fromdos or a similar utility to
strip the x'0d' characters.  The archive - asmg27a.tgz ÝMD5:
F91F976484A3E2E9DECF2D0D58301B9C¨ - contains five jobstreams and
a documentation file:

    ASMGBASE.ASMG27A.jcl
    ASMGLINK.ASMG27A.jcl
    LKEDCTL.ASMG27A.jcl
    MACLIB.ASMG27A.jcl
    ReadMe.txt
    SOURCE.ASMG27A.jcl

Modify, to conform to your system environment, and submit
SOURCE.ASMG27A.jcl, MACLIB.ASMG27A.jcl, and LKEDCTL.ASMG27A.jcl
which will create three Partitioned Datasets containing the
source code, macro library, and linkage editor control statements
required to assemble and link Assembler G.  Modify, to conform to
your system environment, and submit ASMGBASE.ASMG27A.jcl to
assemble all modules into a single object library Partitioned
Dataset.  Modify, to conform to your system environment, and
submit ASMGLINK.ASMG27A.jcl to link edit the modules, creating
the load modules that comprise Assembler G.

Ý11 July 2013¨ An archeological expedition on my desktop brought
to light a page I had photocopied at some unknown time in the
past with a bit of historical information on Assembler G.
Obviously when I originally copied the information I intended to
incorporate it here, alas it became lost on the way and, although
it has resurfaced, I no longer remember the source of the
material. But rather than lose it again, I am reproducing the
information here without further procrastination.

    Assembler G, also known as ASMG, was a fast assembler written
    at UW ÝUniversity of Waterloo¨. The program was first
    installed in March of 1968. It was designed for use with the
    IBM 360 and 370 computer systems (Cowan, Graham, Mackie et
    al. 28). The assembler was so effective that it was adopted
    for general use, even at several IBM laboratories (Cowan,
    Graham, Mackie et al. 4).

    Assembler G was maintained for registered users by UW staff
    for a monthly fee of $100.00 after it was developed under the
    direction of R. Petersen. The program was first presented to
    the computing community at a SHARE Conference held in
    Houston, Texas in February 1968.

    In spite of its many similarities to Assembler F, in its May
    1976 issue Datapro noted that Assembler G dramatically out
    performed ASMF and offered "potential in terms of cost
    savings and extended features." When the program first
    appeared, the Computing Centre Newsletter noted that
    Assembler G was four to five times faster than its immediate
    predecessor.

    UW Special Collections. GA 133-859. Wes Graham Fonds. Series
    4.1: UW Files to 1973. "Assembler G Maintenance Agreement," 3.
    UW Special Collections. GA 133-944. Wes Graham Fonds. Series
    4.1: UW Files to 1973. Sandra Hope (ed.) "Information About
    Assembler G," The Computing Centre Newsletter (Issue 7, 10
    September 1968), 18.

    UW Special Collections. GA 133-1255. Wes Graham Fonds. Series
    4.2: UW Fiels to 1973. "Assembler G: University of Waterloo,"
    Datapro (May 1976), 70E-866-1a-1b.

    UW Special Collections. GA 133-944. Wes Graham Fonds. Series
    4.1: UW Files to 1973. J.P. Sprung (ed.), "Research and
    Development." The Computing Centre Newsletter. (Issue 2 March
    11-2, 1968), 4.

